Testing workshop TODOs (#27)
Android-Academy-Global/fundamentals-2020-homework: workshop/workshop2.md

```kotlin
class MoviesListViewModelTest {
    @get:Rule
    val viewModelRule = viewModelTestingRules()
}
```

## TODO 2.1: Success Test Case

- Create new empty test method inside of `MoviesListViewModelTest`:

```kotlin
@Test
fun `moviesStateOutput by default returns movies list`() {

}
```

- Put code from **TODO 2.2-2.8** into this method

## TODO 2.2

- Create or copy-paste list of `Movie`

```kotlin
val movies = listOf(
    Movie(
        id = 671039,
        title = "Bronx",
        reviewCount = 200,
        isLiked = false,
        rating = 4,
        pgAge = 13,
        genres = emptyList(),
        runningTime = 34,
        imageUrl = "test url"
    ),
    Movie(
        id = 724989,
        title = "Hard Kill",
        reviewCount = 151,
        isLiked = false,
        rating = 0,
        pgAge = 0,
        genres = listOf(Genre(1, "test")),
        runningTime = 0,
        imageUrl = null
    ),
    Movie(
        id = 400160,
        title = "The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run",
        reviewCount = 1395,
        isLiked = false,
        rating = 0,
        pgAge = 0,
        genres = emptyList(),
        runningTime = 0,
        imageUrl = null
    ),
)

> ```

Reviewer: Добавить описание
```kotlin
@Test
fun `moviesStateOutput by default returns movies list`() {
    val movies = listOf(...)
}
```

Reviewer 2: Done

## TODO 2.3

- Create instance of `StubMovieRepository` and provide created `Movie` list

```kotlin
val repository = StubMovieRepository(movies = movies)

> ```

Reviewer: ```
@Test
fun `moviesStateOutput by default returns movies list`() {
    val movies = listOf(...)
    val repository = StubMovieRepository(movies = movies)
}
```

Reviewer 2: Done

        isLiked = false,
        rating = 4,
        pgAge = 13,
        genres = emptyList(),
        runningTime = 34,
        imageUrl = "test url"
    ),
    MoviesListItem(
        id = 724989,
        title = "Hard Kill",
        reviewCount = 151,
        isLiked = false,
        rating = 0,
        pgAge = 0,
        genres = listOf(Genre(1, "test")),
        runningTime = 0,
        imageUrl = null
    ),
    MoviesListItem(
        id = 400160,
        title = "The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run",
        reviewCount = 1395,
        isLiked = false,
        rating = 0,
        pgAge = 0,
        genres = emptyList(),
        runningTime = 0,
        imageUrl = null
    )
)
```

## TODO 2.6

- Get `movieLoadedState` from our `ViewModel`
- Create `expectedState` from created `Movie` list

```kotlin
 val movieLoadedState = viewModel.moviesStateOutput.value
val expectedState = MoviesListViewState.MoviesLoaded(mappedMovieList)       
```

## TODO 2.7

- Use `assertEquals` to check `expectedState` and `movieLoadedState` equality

```kotlin
assertEquals(expectedState, movieLoadedState)
```

## TODO 2.8

- Run Test and see green result. Then proceed to next step.

> ## TODO 2.9: Failure Test Case

Reviewer: Кажется, нужно сперва модифицировать стаб репозиторий, доработать первый тест, перезапустить его и проверить, что он "зеленый". После этого переходить ко второму тесту.

Reviewer 2: Это тоже можно обсудить - потому что если мы прям по шагам делаем, то мне кажется что лучше оставить как есть:
- сначала у нас появляется необходимость добавить Fail Scenario
- это вынуждает нас немного подпилить StubRepository
- мы его меняем
Иначе будет непоследовательно в плане шагов.

Резюмируя - по этому комменту пока ничего не делаю, оставляю коммент для обсуждения

Now let's add new test for Failure scenario:

- Create new test and new instance of ```StubMovieRepository```

```kotlin
@Test
fun `moviesStateOutput on error returns failure`() {
    val repository = StubMovieRepository()
}
```

## TODO 2.10

Now wee need to refactor `StubMovieRepository` to give us ability to set different results in
different test cases

> - Open `StubMovieRepository.kt`

Reviewer: Думаю, что модификацию кода стоит продублировать тудушками непосредственно в коде. Или нужно где-то показать конечный результат.

Reviewer 2: Касательно тудушек - мне кажется будет излишним пару комментариев добавлять, когда у нас все шаги расписаны подробно в .md

- Remove `val movies: List<Movie> = emptyList()` from `StubMovieRepository` constuctor
- Add next code to `StubMovieRepository`:

```kotlin
private var result: Result<List<Movie>> = Success(emptyList())

fun setResult(movies: List<Movie>) {
    result = Success(movies)
}

fun setErrorResult() {
    result = Failure(Throwable())
}
```

- Change

```kotlin
override suspend fun loadMovies(): Result<List<Movie>> = Success(movies)
```

to

```kotlin
override suspend fun loadMovies(): Result<List<Movie>> = result
```

> - Fix first test: remove `movies` from constructor and use `setResult(movies)` method

Reviewer: Нужно сделать отдельной тудушкой.

Reviewer 2: Done

  on `StubMovieRepository`

## TODO 2.11

- Return back to new test in `MoviesListViewModelTest`
- Add `setErrorResult()` to repository
- Create `MoviesListViewModelImpl` same way you did in previous test

## TODO 2.12

- Use `assertEquals` to check that value of `viewModel.moviesStateOutput`
  is `MoviesListViewState.FailedToLoad`

```kotlin
assertEquals(
    MoviesListViewState.FailedToLoad,
    viewModel.moviesStateOutput.value
)

```

## TODO 2.13

- Run test and see green result

## TODO 2.14: Test your tests

- Try breaking something in the implementation to see that tests became red.
- If the tests stay green when the implementation is broken then you have an error in tests.

# Summary

> - `MoviesListViewModelTest.kt`

Reviewer: Думаю, стоит заменить форматирование на заголовок второго уровня. Аналогично первому воркшопу, добавить краткое описание.

Reviewer 2: Done

# Workshop 2

In this workshop we will test `ViewModel` and `LiveData`

## TODO 2.0

- Open `MoviesListViewModel.kt`
- Move the cursor to the class name

> - Press on a yellow bulb and select `Create test`

Reviewer 3: Тут уже добавлять не надо картинок, можно сослаться на первый вокршоп.

Reviewer 2: Добавил сообщение 
- If you have some troubles with these steps, refer to images from Workshop 1

```kotlin
@Test
fun `moviesStateOutput by default returns movies list`() {
    ...
    val mappedMovieList = listOf(...)
}
```

## TODO 2.6

- Get `movieLoadedState` from our `ViewModel`
- Create `expectedState` from created `Movie` list

```kotlin
@Test
fun `moviesStateOutput by default returns movies list`() {
    ...
    val movieLoadedState = viewModel.moviesStateOutput.value
    val expectedState = MoviesListViewState.MoviesLoaded(mappedMovieList)
}
```

## TODO 2.7

- Use `assertEquals` to check `expectedState` and `movieLoadedState` equality

```kotlin
@Test
fun `moviesStateOutput by default returns movies list`() {
    ...
    assertEquals(expectedState, movieLoadedState)
}
```

## TODO 2.8

- Run Test and see green result. Then proceed to next step.

## TODO 2.9: Failure Test Case

Now let's add new test for Failure scenario:

- Create new test and new instance of ```StubMovieRepository```

```kotlin
@Test
fun `moviesStateOutput on error returns failure`() {
    val repository = StubMovieRepository()
}
```

## TODO 2.10

Now wee need to refactor `StubMovieRepository` to give us ability to set different results in
different test cases

- Open `StubMovieRepository.kt`

> - Remove `val movies: List<Movie> = emptyList()` from `StubMovieRepository` constuctor

Reviewer 3: typo - constructor

Reviewer 2: fixed

- Add next code to `StubMovieRepository`:

```kotlin
internal class StubMovieRepository() : MovieRepository {
    ...
    private var result: Result<List<Movie>> = Success(emptyList())

    fun setResult(movies: List<Movie>) {
        result = Success(movies)
    }

    fun setErrorResult() {
        result = Failure(Throwable())
    }
}
```

- Change `loadMovies()` return value from `Success(movies)`

```kotlin
internal class StubMovieRepository() : MovieRepository {
    ...
    override suspend fun loadMovies(): Result<List<Movie>> = Success(movies)
    ...
}
```

to `result`

```kotlin
internal class StubMovieRepository() : MovieRepository {
    ...
    override suspend fun loadMovies(): Result<List<Movie>> = result
    ...
}
```

## TODO 2.11

> Now we need to fix first test: Remove `movies` from constructor and use `setResult(movies)` method

Reviewer 3: Теперь попробуйте заранить тесты и увидеть красный свет. Типа сила тестов показать.

Reviewer 2: added

on `StubMovieRepository`

- Change next code

```kotlin
@Test
fun `moviesStateOutput by default returns movies list`() {
    ...
    val repository = StubMovieRepository(movies = movies)
    ...
}
```

to

```kotlin
@Test
fun `moviesStateOutput by default returns movies list`() {
    ...
    val repository = StubMovieRepository()
    repository.setResult(movies)
    ...
}
```

## TODO 2.12

> - Return back to new test in `MoviesListViewModelTest`

Reviewer 3: Тут я запутался, не сразу понял куда возвращаться. Я бы тест добавлял уже тут, чтобы суматоху не вводить. Сначала сказал, что нам надо поменять репозиторий вот так и потом бы начал с нового теста. Так будет проще.

Reviewer 2: Да, так действительно будет лучше - объединил эти два шага и поставил их после рефакторинга репозитория

> - Add `setErrorResult()` to repository

Reviewer 3: Тут я не понял куда что добавить. Это надо не добавить, а после создания репозитория вызвать метод setErrorResult. Я бы это явно через код показал как вы выше делаете.

Reviewer 2: done

# Workshop 2

In this workshop we will test `ViewModel`

- Open `MoviesListViewModelImplTest.kt`

## TODO 2.1

- Create instance of `StubMovieRepository`

```kotlin
val repository = StubMovieRepository(movies = movies)
```

## TODO 2.2

- Create `MoviesListViewModelImpl` and provide `movies` list and `MoviesListItemMapper ` into
  constructor.

```kotlin
val viewModel = MoviesListViewModelImpl(repository, MoviesListItemMapper())
```

## TODO 2.3

- Get `moviesStateOutput` from our `ViewModel`
- Cast output to `MoviesListViewState.MoviesLoaded` type

```kotlin

> val movieLoadedState = viewModel.moviesStateOutput.value as MoviesListViewState.MoviesLoaded

Author: может не кастить? в  assertEquals можем просто 2 стейта сравнить

```

## TODO 2.4

- Use `assertEquals` to check movies from `mappedMovieList` and `movieLoadedState`

```kotlin
assertEquals(mappedMovieList, movieLoadedState)
```

## TODO 2.5

> - Run Test and after you see the result, proceed to the next step.

Author: ```suggestion
- Try running the test. Don't worry if it doesn't work. Proceed to the next step.
```

## TODO 2.6

- Uncomment next Rule and Run Test again

```kotlin
 @get:Rule
val viewModelRule = viewModelTestingRules()
```

## TODO 2.7

You need to refactor `StubMovieRepository` to give you ability to set different results in different
test cases

- Remove `val movies: List<Movie> = emptyList()` from `StubMovieRepository` constuctor
- Add next code to Repository:

```kotlin
private var result: Result<List<Movie>> = Success(emptyList())

fun setResult(movies: List<Movie>) {
    result = Success(movies)
}

fun setErrorResult() {
    result = Failure(Throwable())
}
```

- Fix first test: use `setResult()` method on `StubMovieRepository`

## TODO 2.8

- Use `setErrorResult()` to repository and create `MoviesListViewModelImpl` same way as in first
  test

## TODO 2.9

- Use `assertEquals` to check that value of `viewModel.moviesStateOutput`
  is `MoviesListViewState.FailedToLoad`

> ## TODO 2.10
> 
> - Run test

Author: ```suggestion
## TODO 2.10

- Run test

## TODO 2.11

Test your tests. Try breaking something in the implementation to see that tests became red. If the tests stay green when the implementation is broken then you have an error in tests.
```
